now Iran's president-elect has met with
a deputy leader of the Lebanese militant
group Hezbollah in tran massud peshan
seen here on the right is taking office
at a time of soaring tensions in the
Middle East Israel blames Hezbollah for
a rocket strike that killed 12 children
in the Israeli occupied Golan Heights
over the weekend hezbollah's Chief Ally
is Iran which the US and Israel say is
fueling conflict in the region
Israel and hisbah have been exchanging
missiles and Rocket fire for months with
fears of a wider regional conflict
mounting after the latest attack on a
Drew Village in the Israeli occupied
Golan height which killed 12 young
people Hezbollah has denied any
responsibility Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly framed
the as a fight between Israel and Iran
which backs Hezbollah in Lebanon and
Hamas in
Gaza Netanyahu brought up Iran during
his recent address to the US
Congress we meet today at a Crossroads
of
History our world is in
upheaval in the Middle East Iran's
access of Terror confronts America
Israel and our Arab friends
in addition to Hamas and Hezbollah Iran
also backs the houthis in Yemen which
have launched a series of attacks on
commercial ships in the Red Sea and the
Gulf of Aiden the stated aim to weaken
Israel and undermine American influence
in the region to a proud Irish ameran
Zionist following the October 7th Hamas
Terror attacks fighting has
intensified the conflict has opened up
fronts in Iraq and Syria where Iran has
encouraged its militias to attack US
military
bases the power of the resistance is
becoming more evident every
day the Zionist
enemy with all the help from America and
some treacherous
governments has failed to immobilize or
overcome the resistance
forces 10 months into the war hisbah and
Israel have carefully calibrated their
attacks to prevent an
escalation but the latest strike on a
sports field in Israel controlled
territory is once again fueling fears
that these isolated incidents could turn
into a regional conflict between Israel
and its neighbors near and far
Ricardo alcaro is with the Institute of
international Affairs in Rome welcome to
DW now with tensions growing between
Hezbollah and Israel what message is the
newly elected Iranian president trying
to convey by meeting officials from
Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad on the day
of his
inauguration a message of continuity I
mean pesan comes from the reformist camp
of uh Iranian politics but he becomes
president in a very very difficult uh
moment uh the regional predicament of
Iran is volatile it's dangerous and Iran
has been sticking to its main allies in
the region since Israel started its
devastating retaliation against hamas's
attack on October the 7
2023 so there is no way pesin can start
its uh presidency without showing
allegiance to the network of allies that
have been for the past several decades
or at least two decades being one of the
main pillars of Iran's Regional and
security
policy the newly elected Iranian uh
president pesh Kanan reportedly told the
French president in a telephone call
that any Israel attack on Lebanon will
have serious consequences for Israel do
you think we could see another Iranian
attack on Israel anytime
soon there is there is certainly a
possibility uh although I don't think it
is very much likely there certain
conditions uh must be met in order for
Iran to determine that he has the
incentive to risk the potential
retaliation that it would incur if it
were to attack against Israel and those
conditions are the following either uh
is Israel attacks Iran directly on its
territory second Israel attacks Iranian
diplomatic facilities as it dided uh in
April which triggered Iran's uh direct
response against Israel or third and
this is the one that worries me the most
Israel engages in an allout war with
Hezbollah and Hezbollah is by far Iran's
most important Ally in the region and
Iran would not be tolerating the
possibility of esbah being destroyed so
at one point Iran would would feel the
need to intervene and support of esbah
if isbah were put in a very difficult
spot by an Israeli Onslaught if we could
just talk about that scenario three a
little bit more Hezbollah of course
depends on Iranian support how much does
Iran control hezbollah's decision in
this
situation look I think that if isbah
wants to do something something that the
Iranian leadership is adamantly and
absolutely opposed to Hezbollah would
have a hard time doing that but this is
really a French situation uh it's not
very likely that this is the way how
Iran and esbah would sort out the
differences the decision making Pro
processes that Iran and esbah have
established over the course of two of
two decades and actually more than two
decades is very much persuasion of ented
dialogue based and it's not like Iran
commands and asbah follows so um it's
not really a matter of control it's a
matter of can they get to some sort of
strong consensus between the two about
what the red lines are that Israel has
to cross in order for esbah to engage in
an allout War international relations
analyst Ricardo alcara Ricardo thank you
so much for your time and for your
analysis
thank you for having
me and let's get more from makram Raba
he's an assistant professor of history
at the American University of Beirut
welcome Mr Raba how great would you say
is the concern in Lebanon that a war
with Israel might be on the
horizon well actually the people of
Lebanon are in the midst of War but what
they are actually waiting for at the
moment is a so-called punitive strike
which Netanyahu and Israel has Ved to to
do against hisbah for targeting the
soccer pitch in the julan and the
killing of the 13 children so basically
everyone is anxious because no one knows
including hisbah what will be the extent
of the strike and at the same time no
one knows how will hisbah retaliate but
as is everyone has telegrammed in a way
that they don't want a fulls scale
escalation or a total war not because
they want to avoid war but at least in
the mindset of Netanyahu he cannot fight
uh two fronts at the same time andah and
Iran simply want a way out and they are
trying to negotiate this with the Biden
Administration but thus far they has
failed miserably uh to convince the
International Community to force a kind
of a cease fire is a response from
Hezbollah to any potential Israeli
strike dependent on the nature of that
Israeli
strike well hisbah simply cares about
the Optics and this is why it all
depends on what type of strike the
Israelis will take we have been hearing
from the Israeli side something which is
similar to the Huda scenario and they
have used this term in particular so
they want something theatrical something
that would be sending a message to the
International Community and to hisbah
and Iran in particular however
ironically sir there's nothing to
destroy in Lebanon anymore hisbah has
done this on behalf of the Israelis at
the same time we don't know if hisbah
has the ability or its calculated
response to any Israeli strike would not
spill over and cause a kind of a
regional War Hezbollah depends on
Iranian support but how much does Iran
control hezbollah's decisions in this
current
situation well Hezbollah again is a is a
Iranian proxy and while Hezbollah might
have some sort of individual Agency on
how to fight the decision to fight comes
from Iran and tahan and here we don't
want to say that they are ordered but
they are part and parcel and organically
connected to the Iran ruary guard and
the Secretary General of hisbah Hassan n
carries a kind of weight and he
virtually and figuratively sits on
tahan's war council so he is allowed to
lead the confrontation here however the
the overwhelming talking points or the
general direction of the conflict has
been set by
tan and newly elected Iranian president
masud pesan reportedly told the French
President Emanuel macron in a telephone
call I think it was that any Israeli
attack on Lebanon will have caught
serious consequences for Israel does
that mean we could potentially see
another Iranian attack on
Israel well I think the Israelis want
would like a kind of this theatrical
light show which the Iranians did after
their Embassy was targeted because as
you are well aware sir this has caused
the International Community to come to
the aid of Israel so if the Iranians
continue uh to do this so-called Shadow
Boxing and try to uh uh threaten
threaten Israel's existence and send
these Rockets across many of the Arab
countries this would be actually
beneficial for Netanyahu and his talking
points as well as to the Hawks in his
cabinet so I think the Iranian president
who claims to be a reformer doesn't
really call the shots in Iran the people
who do are the are the guards and and at
the moment no one is listening to any
sort of logic
calls for peace everyone wants war or
they want to actually be able to
capitalize on the blood of the innocent
across across the border that the
conflict between Israel and Hezbollah is
of course closely linked to the war in
Gaza Hezbollah has said it will stop its
attacks on Israel as soon as there is a
ceasefire in Gaza do you believe
that well hisbah might want to do this
because simply even when they opened the
so-called front in the south of Lebanon
to support the Palestinians they had
failed miserably nothing has changed and
the people of Gaza are dying at the same
rate as before however this idea of
unifying the fronts between Lebanon and
Israel this is something that Netanyahu
and the Israeli military has chosen not
to accept meaning that after the end of
the war in Gazza the military
establishment will have to rethink what
it will do in Lebanon and thus this idea
that the end of the war inza will simply
translate in the end of the war in
Lebanon is totally unfound
we'll leave it there for the moment but
thanks so much for joining us today Mak
Raba from the American University of
Beirut thanks so much